api_v2_introduction.md (#3513)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/api-intro.md

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "API Reference"
short-title: "API Reference"
description: "Introduction to the CircleCI API"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 1
---

The CircleCI API may be used to make API calls to retrieve detailed information about users, jobs, workflows and pipelines. There are currently two supported API versions:

* [API v1.1 Documentation](https://circleci.com/docs/api/#api-overview)
* [API v2 Documentation](https://circleci.com/docs/api/v2/)

API v2 includes several powerful features (e.g. support for pipelines and pipeline parameters) that are unavailable in API v1.1. It is recommended that users migrate their scripts to API v2 stable endpoints as soon as possible. 

CircleCI API v1.1 and portions of API v2 are supported and generally available. CircleCI expects to eventually End-Of-Life (EOL) API v1.1 in favor of API v2 as more API v2 endpoints are announced as stable. Further guidance on when CircleCI API v1.1 will be discontinued will be communicated at a future date.

## Introduction to API v2

> CircleCI API v2 enables you to use endpoints with several new features that improve the API experience, in addition to optimizing how you use the API for your jobs. API v2 is currently in active development; therefore, the stability of the API is referred to as "mixed."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI API v2 enables you to use endpoints with several new features that improve the API experience, in addition to optimizing how you use the API for your jobs. API v2 is currently in active development, therefore, the stability of the API is referred to as "mixed".
```

With API v2, CircleCI is introducing a string representation of the triplet called the `project_slug`, which takes the following form:

`<project_type>/<org_name>/<repo_name>`

The `project_slug` is included in the payload when pulling information about a project as well as when looking up a pipeline or workflow by ID. The `project_slug` can then be used to get information about the project. It is possible in the future the shape of a `project_slug` may change, but in all cases it would be usable as a human-readable identifier for a given project.

### Authentication

> The CircleCI API v2 enables users to be authenticated by simply sending your API token as the username of the HTTP request. For example, if you have set `CIRCLECI_TOKEN` in your shell's environment, then you could then use `curl` with that token like the example shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CircleCI API v2 enables users to be authenticated by simply sending your API token as the username of the HTTP request. For example, if you have set `CIRCLECI_TOKEN` in your shell's environment, you could then use `curl` with that token like the example shown below:
```

`curl -user ${CIRCLECI_TOKEN} https://circleci.com/api/v2/me`

### Pipelines

The CircleCI API v2 includes the use of pipelines to assist you in triggering workflows from the CircleCI API. By enabling pipelines, you can take advantage of specific API use cases such as:

> - Jobs named `build` will be wrapped in a workflows stanza by the processor.

Reviewer: This is of no actual advantage to users. IMO more just a remark that this will happen would be better?

Reviewer: removing and adding some benefits listed here: https://discuss.circleci.com/t/feedback-wanted-moving-from-v1-1-job-triggering-to-v2-pipeline-triggering/33494

> - Jobs named `build` will be wrapped in a workflows stanza by the processor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use Pipeline parameters to trigger [conditional workflows](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/pipeline-variables/#conditional-workflows).
- API v2 triggering works with v2.1 config, allowing use of reusable config elements, including orbs.
```

> - Projects for which auto-cancel is enabled in the **Advanced Settings** will have workflows on non-default branches cancelled when a newer build is triggered on that same branch.

Reviewer: This sounds advantageous, but am wondering what non-default branches are in this scenario?

Reviewer: Ah default branch is set in github. Glen proposed a rewording - will change.

> - Projects for which auto-cancel is enabled in the **Advanced Settings** will have workflows on non-default branches cancelled when a newer build is triggered on that same branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now enable auto-cancel, within **Advanced Settings**, to abort workflows when new builds are triggered on non-default branches.
```

Reviewer: This isn't an API use case though is it?

> For more detailed information about pipelines and how you can use them in your workflows and builds, please see the [Pipelines](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-processing/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information on pipelines and how you can use them in your workflows and jobs, please see the following guides: 
* [Enabling and Transitioning to Pipelines](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-processing/) guide.
* [Viewing Pipelines in the UI](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/pipelines/#overview)
* [Pipeline Variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/pipeline-variables/#section=configuration)
```

> For more detailed information about pipelines and how you can use them in your workflows and builds, please see the [Build Processing](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-processing/)page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information about pipelines and how you can use them in your workflows and builds, please see the [Pipelines](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-processing/) guide.
```

> For more detailed information about pipelines and how you can use them in your workflows and builds, please see the [Build Processing](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-processing/)page.

Reviewer: I think the Build Processing page is now titled Enabling Pipelines .... Maybe here refer to it as the Pipelines page here?

#### Triggering a Pipeline with Parameters Example

Here is a simple example using `curl` to trigger a pipeline with parameters:

```
curl -u ${CIRCLECI_TOKEN}: -X POST --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
  "parameters": {
    "myparam": "./myspecialdir",
    "myspecialversion": "4.8.2"
  }
}' https://circleci.com/api/v2/project/${project_slug}/pipeline
```

In the above example the `project_slug` would take the form `:vcs/:org/:project`. For example, the project slug `gh/CircleCI-Public/circleci-cli` tells `CircleCI` to use the project found in the GitHub organization CircleCI-Public in the repository named `circleci-cli`.

> **IMPORTANT** Pipeline parameters are **not** treated as sensitive data and **must not** be used for sensitive values (secrets). You can find this sensitive information in the [Project Settings] page(https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/settings/) and [Contexts](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/glossary/#context)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**IMPORTANT** Pipeline parameters are **not** treated as sensitive data and **must not** be used for sensitive values (secrets). You can find information on using sensitive data correctly in the [Project Settings](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/settings/) and [Contexts](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/glossary/#context) guides.
```

## Changes In Endpoints

> The CircleCI API v2 release includes several new endpoints, as well as some other endpoints that have been deprecated. The sections below list the endpoints added for this release, in addition to the endpoints that have been removed.

Reviewer: To me this reads like some deprecated endpoints have been reintroduced. 
```suggestion
The CircleCI API v2 release includes several new endpoints, and deprecates some others. The sections below list the endpoints added for this release, in addition to the endpoints that have been removed.
```

Reviewer: Feel free to ignore - It's just the original wording to me sounded like some old api endpoints had been reintroduced.

`GET /pipeline/:id` | This endpoint enables users to retrieve an individual pipeline, based on the `id` passed in the request.
`GET /pipeline/:id/config`  | This endpoint enables users to retrieve the configuration of a specific pipeline.
`GET /project/:project_slug/pipelines/[:filter]`  | This endpoint enables users to retrieve the most recent set of pipelines for a Project.

### Deprecated Endpoints
{:.no_toc}

For this updated API v2 release, several endpoints have been deprecated, which are listed in the table below.

Endpoint       | Description
-----------|-----------------------------------------------------
`POST /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project`  | This endpoint allowed users to trigger a new build.
`POST /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project/build` | This endpoint enables users to trigger a new build by project.
`DELETE /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project/build-cache` | This endpoint enabled users to clear the project cache for a specific project.
`GET /recent-builds` | This endpoint enabled users to retrieve an array of recent builds.

## API v2 and Server Customers

> Existing CircleCI Server customers will be unable to use API v2. Sometime in the future, support for Server customers may be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API V2 is not currently supported for self-hosted installations of CircleCI Server.
```

> Existing CircleCI Server customers will be unable to use API v2. Sometime in the future, support for Server customers may be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API v2 is not currently supported for self-hosted installations of CircleCI Server.
```

> Existing CircleCI Server customers will be unable to use API v2. Sometime in the future, support for Server customers may be added.

Reviewer: I wonder if it might sound less bad to say: "API V2 is not currently supported for self-hosted installations of CircleCI Server."

`GET /pipeline/:id` | This endpoint enables users to retrieve an individual pipeline, based on the `id` passed in the request.
`GET /pipeline/:id/config`  | This endpoint enables users to retrieve the configuration of a specific pipeline.
`GET /project/:project_slug/pipelines/[:filter]`  | This endpoint enables users to retrieve the most recent set of pipelines for a Project.

### Deprecated Endpoints
{:.no_toc}

For this updated API v2 release, several endpoints have been deprecated, which are listed in the table below.

Endpoint       | Description
-----------|-----------------------------------------------------
`POST /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project`  | This endpoint allowed users to trigger a new build.
`POST /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project/build` | This endpoint enables users to trigger a new build by project.
`DELETE /project/:vcs-type/:username/:project/build-cache` | This endpoint enabled users to clear the project cache for a specific project.
`GET /recent-builds` | This endpoint enabled users to retrieve an array of recent builds.

## API v2 and Server Customers

API v2 is not currently supported for self-hosted installations of CircleCI Server.

> ## Insights

Reviewer 2: At this time, we're not prepared to make the insights endpoints publicly available through the docs. Can we pull this section for now?

Author: @markupboy Blake: I went ahead and commented out this section so it will not be publicly available for this release.
